---
layout: post
title: "人类婴儿的心理诞生——分离与个体化（一） 介绍与回顾"
date:   1975-1-1
tags: [Mahler]
comments: true
author: Margaret S. Mahler，Fred Pine，Anni Bergman
---

### INTRODUCTION AND HISTORICAL REVIEW

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As early as 1949, Mahler first adumbrated her theory that schizophrenia-like infantile psychosis syndromes were either autistic or symbiotic in origin, or both. In 1955, with Gosliner, she introduced her hypothesis of the universality of the symbiotic origin of the human condition, as well as the hypothesis of an obligatory separation-individuation process in normal development.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;These hypotheses led to a research project on "The Natural History of Symbiotic Child Psychosis," carried out at the Masters Children's Center in New York, under the direction of Mahler and Dr. Manuel Furer (co-principal investigators). The project was sponsored by the National Institute of Mental Health, USPHS. It was designed to study the gravest deviations of the assumed normal symbiotic phase and the complete failure of the obligatory intrapsychic separation-individuation process. The yield of this research is described in *On Human Symbiosis and the Vicissitudes of Individuation: Volume Ⅰ, Infantile Psychosis*.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In its earliest stages, the research was limited to the study of symbiotic psychotic children and their mothers. However, the necessity of further validation of the above hypotheses in normal human development became more and more apparent to the two principal investigators of the project. A comparative parallel study was needed with normal babies and their mothers to substantiate the universality of the hypotheses. Hence in 1959, investigation of a control group of "average mothers and their normal babies" was begun at the Masters Children's Center. A pilot study, "The Development of Self-Identity and Its Disturbances," was made possible by grants from the Field Foundation and the Taconic Foundation. Its aim was to learn how healthy children attain their sense of "individual entity" and identity. Anni Bergman, and later Edith Atkin worked with Mahler and Furer on this pilot study.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When in the very beginning of the 1960s, the National Association of Mental Health express its interest in a comparative investigation within our framework of "The Development of Intelligence in Schizophrenic Children and a Control Group of Normal Toddlers," the complementariness of the two research projects became more apparent. Dr. David L. Mayer was added to our research stuff, and many of the workers who hitherto had been exclusively engaged in the symbiotic psychosis study now joined the work of the normative study as research psychiatrists or participant observers.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The complementariness of the two research projects called for a sophisticated innovative methodology, which was initiated in 1961 by Dr. Fred Pine. (The 1963 paper by Pine and Furer, "Studies of the Separation-Individuation Phase: A Methodological Overview," is relevant for the understanding of that stage of our overall work.)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As the methodology envolved and led to more systematic, psychoanalytically oriented observations, the joint efforts of Mahler, Furer, Pine, additional hypothesis of four subphases of the normal or near-normal separation-individuation process was formulated. After the formulation of this additional hypothesis, it became apparent that its validity had to be checked by repeating and extending the study to another group of average mothers and their normal babies. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In February 1963, Mahler applied to the National Institute of Mental Health for a research grant. In her application she stated that on the basis of her previous work, she and her co-workers found that the roots of infantile psychosis are to be sought in the second half of the first year and in the second year of life. This time span came to be recgnized as the "separation-individuation phase" of development. Mahler stated that the purpose of the proposed study was to verify the occurrence of the four subphasesof the separation-individuation process by longitudinal study of another group of mother-child pairs——and to delineate both the patterns of mother-child interaction typical of each subphase and the developmental patterns of the child occuring at each subphase. It was felt that added systematic knowledge about this little-known period of development could be applicable in the prevention of severe emotional disturbance. Funds for such a study were granted by the National Institute of Mental Health for five years (later extended). The results of this research are described in the present volume.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dr. John B. McDevitt became our associatein 1965 and since that time has invaluably enhanced the systematization, as well as the scope and precision, of our work. However, rather than participating in the writing of this volume, he preferred to devote his time to important aspects of the study that are of special interest to him and to the ongoing follow-up study.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*The Psychological Birth of the Human Infant: Symbiosis and Individuation* is divided into four parts. The authors thought it would be salutary first to present a background against which the formulations explicated in Parts Ⅱ and Ⅲ could be viewed. In Part Ⅰ， Chapter 1 (written by Pine and Mahler), we therefore integrate the ideas contained in 20 or more widely scattered relevant papers by Mahler and her co-workers, past and present. This opening chapter was greatly influenced by our joint discussions. (The minutes of our staff conferences are utilized in this as well as in other chapters.)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Part Ⅰ，Chapter 2, as well as the Appendices (written by Pine), describes the evolution and the functioning of the research setting from a methodological point of view. We believe the correlation of Pine's work with that of Mahler and Bergman becomes evident in Parts Ⅱ and Ⅲ.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In Part Ⅱ, Chapters 3 through 6, Bergman and Mahler describe their clinical study of the first three subphases of the separation-individuation process and provide illustrative vignettes. Chapter 7 deals with the fourth subphase and with object constancy in its psychoanalytic (emotional) sense.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In Part Ⅲ, 










&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

































